Now we're going to talk
about text processing.
The most basic and
fundamental tool we have for
text processing is the regular expression.
A regular expression is a formal
language for specifying text strings.
So let's suppose that we're looking for
woodchucks in a text document.
Woodchucks can be expressed
in a number of ways.
We could have a singular woodchuck.
We could have the plural s at the end.
We could have a capital
letter at the beginning.
Or a lowercase, and
any combination of these.
So we're going to need tools
to deal with this problem.
So the simplest fundamental tool in
a regular expression is the disjunction.
The square brackets in a regular
expression pattern mean
any letter inside these square brackets.
So, [wW] means either a lowercase w or
a capital W.
So we can combine that with
oodchuck to match the lowercase or
uppercase woodchuck.
And similarly, with digits.
1, 2, 3, 4 and so on.
5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 0 matches any digit.
Now, that was kind of annoying to write.
So what we'd like to do
instead is have little ranges.
The range 0 through 9, so [0-9],
means any character inside that range.
And the range [A-Z] means any character,
any capital letter between A and Z.
So let's see if we can see how that works.
So here's an example at our regexpal,
a little tool we're going to use for
regular expressions searching.
And we have a little text here from Dr.
Seuss.
We looked!
Then we saw him step in on the mat.
And we saw him!
The Cat in the Hat!
And let's try our disjunctions.
So, we can have the capital W and
the lowercase w.
And, excuse me,
a capital W and a lowercase w.
And that's going to match, as you can see.
The capital W's and
the lowercase w's just fine.
Or we could have all the e's and
all the m's.
And that's going to match all the e's and
the m's.
Or in our ranges,
we can have all the capital letters.
There's all the capital
letters being matched.
We can have all the lower case letters.
There's a lot of lower case letters there.
Or we could match all of
the alphanumeric characters.
Think for a second how to match all
the alphanumeric characters we can have.
Or we could simply match some of
the non-alphanumeric characters.
We could have space and exclamation
point in our square brackets, and
that's going to match as you can see
some of the non-alphabetic characters.
Okay.
So let's go on.
Another kind of thing we might want to do
in our regular expressions is negation in
our disjunction.
We might want to say we don't
want some kind of set of letters.
So for example, we might want to say,
not a capital letter.
We can do that by saying, [^A-Z].
Caret, when it occurs right after
the square brackets, it means not.
[^A-Z], not a capital letter.
[^Aa] means neither a capital A,
nor a little a.
And [^e^] means not an e and not a caret.
So, you can see that the caret when it
occurs right after the square bracket
means not, but
later on means simply just a caret.
So, lets take a look at that.
So we can try finding all
of the non-capital letters.
Here's all the non-capital letters.
How about all the non exclamation points?
Most things.
And the non-alphanumerics, sorry,
the non-alphabetics.
There's just the spaces and
exclamation points, as you can see.
How about looking for a caret.
Any carets in here, there are none.
So there are no carets in here,
so nothing matches.
Another kind of disjunction which can
be used for longer strings is the pipe
symbol, sometimes called or,
or pipe, or just disjunction.
So groundhog|woodchuck will mean
either the string groundhog or
the string woodchuck.
So we can use the pipe symbol sometimes
for the same thing as the square brackets.
So a|b|c is the same as [abc].
And we can combine these things.
We can combine the square brackets and the
pipe so we can have groundhog or woodchuck
but use our square brackets for expressing
capitalization at the beginning.
And we can see that in our little example.
We can have looked|step, and
sure enough there the words looked and
step are both highlighted, or we can
have disjunction of just random things.
They don't have to be words.
We can have all of the at's and
all of the ook's and all of the ook's,
and any random string is fine.
Finally, there's sets of special
characters that are very important in
regular expressions.
The question mark means that
the previous character is optional.
So the question mark after this u here,
will match the word color with or
without the u.
Without the u, with the u.
Then there are the two Kleene
operators named for Stephen Kleene.
Kleene star matches zero or more of the
previous characters, so here's the star,
it matches zero or more o's, so we have
one o followed by zero or more other o's.
So there's the initial o and
zero other o's and then our h!.
Here's our initial o followed by one o and
then the h and so on.
Two, three, and so on.
Sometimes more simple,
we can have the Kleene plus.
So that means one or
more of the previous characters.
So there's our o followed by the plus,
meaning one or more o.
So there's one o.
There's two o's, three o's, and so on.
And the dot is a special character,
meaning any character.
So beg.n can match begin, begun, beg3n.
It matches anything.
And finally two special characters.
The caret matches
the beginning of the line.
So, ^ [A-Z] matches a capital letter
at the beginning of the line.
The dollar sign matches the end of a line.
So, [A-Z]$ matches the end of a line.
Like a capital letter
at the end of a line.
And then,
if we want to talk about a period,
since periods are a special character,
we have to escape them.
And backslash period means a period.
So a period by itself means any character.
Backslash period, means a real period.
Let's go look at some of these.
So, here's the letter o, here's zero or,
let's make it one or more o first.
Here's one or more o.
So there's one o over here and
two o's over here.
And now let's look at beginnings and
ends of lines.
Here is, capital letters
at the beginning of a line.
Here's capital letters
at the end of a line.
There aren't any.
Here's punctuation at the end of a line.
There's only exclamation
points at the end of the line.
Here's all the periods, remember we
have to backslash our periods, and
if we didn't backslash the period
we would get all the characters.
because period matches everything.
All right, let's do one more example.
Let's look at this little sentence here.
The other one there, the blithe one.
Let's walk through how to search for
words.
Let's find all the word the in
this little passage, so think for
yourself how you would do this.
Well the simplest thing you might do,
is just type the t, h, e.
And that does a good job
of finding this the here.
And it finds this the, and that the.
But, it misses these two the's.
It also finds some other things.
Let's fix the first problem.
How do we not only get the the's in
the middle, but those capitalized
The's at the beginning, what we're
going to use are our disjunction.
And sure enough, that correctly now
matches the two beginning of line The's.
But you notice that our pattern,
although it now captures
something it missed before,
it still captures things that shouldn't
be captured, other, there, and blithe.
So we need to augment our pattern, so
how are we going to augment our pattern?
We really want the when there's not
an alphabetic character around it,
we need a space or a punctuation or
something non-alphabetic.
So let's just say non-alphabetic
afterwards, great.
That gets rid of other and
there, it doesn't solve blithe,
because blithe has an alphabetic
character before it.
So let's go fix blithe by saying
non-alphabetic before it.
There we go.
Now we found all of our the's.
So we looked for the,
we noticed that miscapitalized examples,
so we added some,
we made our pattern more expansive.
We've increased the yield of our pattern,
but that incorrectly returns more things.
So then, we need to make the pattern
more precise by specifying more things.
This process that we went through is
based on fixing two kinds of errors.
One is matching strings we
shouldn't have matched.
We matched there, we matched other.
That's solving the problem
of false positives, or
they're called Type I errors.
We are matching things we shouldn't match.
And the other thing we went through is to
solve the problem of not matching things
we should have matched.
So we missed those capital The's.
And that's dealing with the problem
of false negatives or Type II errors.
And it turns out in natural
language processing,
we're constantly dealing with
these two classes of errors.
So reducing the error rate
in any application, and
we're going to see this again and
again in this course,
involves two antagonistic efforts.
We're increasing the accuracy or
precision, which helps us
minimize those false positives.
Or we're increasing our coverage, or
technically called recall,
minimizing our false negatives.
So in summary,
regular expressions play a surprisingly
large role in text processing.
And the sophisticated sequences of regular
expressions that we've seen very simple
versions of, are often the first model for
almost any text processing task.
For harder tasks, we're often going to
be using, and we'll introduce these,
these machine learning classifiers
that are much more powerful.
But it turns out even then regular
expressions are used as features in
the classifiers, and are very useful
in capturing generalizations.
So you're going to be returning again and
again to regular expressions.